Markathon
=========

Markathon allows you to write XML-based languages in pure Python code.
Currently it supports XHTML and RSS, and you can add other languages easily.

    from markathon.xhtml import *


    print html(
        head(
            meta(content='application/xhtml+xml;charset=utf-8'),
            title("Ready, steady, GO!")
        ),
        body(
            h1(_class="Chunk")("Grail"),
            p("But seriously, who the hell doesn't hate Lorem Ipsum?")
        )
    )

This will print the following output (*new line* characters were added
manually for readability purposes):

    <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
    <meta content="application/xhtml+xml;charset=utf-8" />
    <title>Ready, steady, GO!</title></head><body><h1 class="Chunk">Grail</h1>
    <p>But seriously, who the hell doesn't hate Lorem Ipsum?</p></body></html>


Get started
-----------

To work with Markathon, you must import the language tags you want to use:

    # If you want to write XHTML code:
    from markathon.xhtml import *
    # But if you want write RSS code:
    from markathon.rss import *

`import *` allows you to import all tags automatically, and it's convenient in
some cases. However, you might want to use other methods:

    # For a clean global namespace, import tags individually:
    from markathon.xhtml import html, head, body, p
    # Or just import the language (very verbose at use!):
    import markathon.xhtml

Then you just use each tag like a function with its content as arguments:

    p('Hello, ', 'world!')

You can add attributes like this (note that `class` is a reserved word, you can't use it as an attribute name in Python. You can bypass this limitation by adding a `_` before the reserved word, Markathon will handle it gracefully):

    p(id='paragraph_01', _class="important")('content here')

here you go!


Add your own languages
----------------------

You'll quickly want to use more languages than XHTML and RSS. I suggest you to
look inside `xhtml.py` and `rss.py` to see how they work, the code is very
simple to understand.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Markathon is based on **PyML** *(Python Markup Language)* by [@PepijnDeVos](http://twitter.com/pepijndevos).

Questions, remarks, anything: [@hashmalech](http://twitter.com/hashmalech)
